#summary List of command line options for _tkmaterial_

= Console Quick Start Guide =

This page gives an overview over the various command line options available to the _tkmaterial_ main executable. Running _./tkmaterial_ without any options at all will print the same information on the command line in abbreviated form.

The full call syntax for _tkmaterial_ is the following:

_./tkmaterial `[`-umd`]` geomfile `[`settingsfile`]` `[`materialfile`]` `[`-t n_of_tracks`]` `[`-h `[`htmlfile`]]` `[`-r `[`rootfile`]]` `[`-g `[`graphfile`]]` `[`-x `[`XMLsubdir`]]`_

As usual, the parts in square brackets are optional.

Depending on how many input files it gets, _tkmaterial_ will try to do as much modelling as possible. The output options and flags then determine what is analised and written to file - provided that the requested type of output can actually be generated from the given input information.

The individual options are discussed in more detail below.

== Boolean Flags ==

*u:* print geometry summary after volume creation (at runtime)

*m:* print material budget summary after volume creation (at runtime)

*d:* write detailed geometry to root file (instead of simplified layer and disc volumes) - WARNING: may cause root to crash later because it's trying to load too many volumes!

== Input ==

*geomfile:* the name (and path, if necessary) of the [ConfigFilesOverview#The_Geometry_Configuration_File geometry configuration file]

*settingsfile:* the name (and path, if necessary) of the [ConfigFilesOverview#The_Settings_File settings file]

*materialfile:* the name (and path, if necessary) of the [ConfigFilesOverview#The_Material_File material file]

== Analysis and Output Options ==

A geometry summary of the active surfaces is generated by default. It is in HTML form and shows the basic layout of the modules along with some analysis results. On top of that, there are a number of other things that may be written to file. The options below control the other available types of output:

*t:* sets the number of tracks used for analysis of a material budget; the default is _50_

*h:* flag to request an HTML summary of the material analysis; if no filename is specified, the application constructs one from the internal tracker information

*r:* flag to request conversion of the tracker geometry to a ROOT file; if no filename is specified, the application constructs one from the internal tracker information

*g:* _mostly used for debugging_ - flag to request a simple plaintext file listing the edges of the connection graph describing material propagation from layers and discs to services and out; if no filename is specified, the application constructs one from the internal tracker information

*x:* flag to request a set of XML files describing the full tracker and its materials that can be loaded in CMSSW; files with standard, CMSSW compatible names will be written to a subfolder with a name that is either user-specified or constructed from the internal tracker information